# The differences between System V and BSD Unix


```txt
To see every process on the system using standard syntax:
    ps -e
    ps -ef
    ps -eF
    ps -ely

To see every process on the system using BSD syntax:
    ps ax
    ps axu
```

As you may know, Unix was "invented" in 1969 and developed in the 70's. By the 80's there were **two distinct branches**, **System V** and **BSD**. **System V** was always considered **more commercial**, while **BSD** was the **university model**, and was developed during the 80s at the University of California Berkeley.

## Two distinct branches

**BSD** is considered “university Unix”, or hobbyist Unix, because it came out of UC Berkeley in California.

**System V** is pronounced “System Five”, and was developed by AT&T. System V is considered more commercial.

| Branch     | Created By    | Flag              |
| ---------- | ------------- | ----------------- |
| `BSD`      | `UC Berkeley` | `hobbyiest Unix`  |
| `System V` | `AT&T`        | `commercial Unix` |

## The location of binaries

One of the main differences was the location of binaries. **System V** standardized configurations, software installation, and handling network programming, which was in line with its corporate focus.

**System V** placed its files in `/usr/bin/` and `/usr/sbin`.

**BSD** placed its files in `/bin/` and `/sbin/`.

## Startup scripts

Another big difference is in startup scripts: **BSD** used a script in `/etc/rc` to initialize itself and didn’t use runlevels. The `/etc/rc` file is what files were run by `init`. To avoid having to edit `/etc/rc`, BSD variants supported a site-specific `/etc/rc.local` file that runs near the end of the boot process. Later BSD’s, including FreeBSD and beyond, executes scripts out of the `/etc/rc.d` directory.

**System V** uses what’s now called SysV (Sis Vee) Style Init. SysV Style Init uses what are called runlevels, and a SysV system is always in exactly one runlevel. These include normal operation, single user mode, shutdown, and others. When you switch from one runlevel to another a series of scripts are run before and after.

## Future

Over time, the two types have blended significantly, and modern operating systems (such as Linux) tend to have features of both.

One big difference between BSD and Linux is that Linux is a kernel while BSD is an operating system. That’s the biggest difference between BSD and Linux: Linux is a a collection of little pieces, while BSD is one thing.

## BSD

**BSD** stands for “**Berkeley Software Distribution**,” as it was originally a set of modifications to Bell Unix created at the University of California, Berkeley. It eventually grew into a complete operating system and now there are multiple different BSDs.
