# GNU

The **GNU Project** was begun in `1984` by Richard Stallman of MIT with the aim to develop a complete free (meaning free for everyone to look at, to learn from, and to build upon) software operating system. In `1989` he codified the terms under which this free software was released, producing the **GNU Public License (GPL)** which is the basis on which much of the `GNU/Linux` operating system is released. **The license** is often referred to as **the copyleft license** in contrast to the restrictive practise of **copyright**.

By `1991` when Linus Torvalds wrote his Linux kernel GNU provided the operating system. By combining the GNU operating system with the Linux kernel the seeds for this most popular free operating system were sown.

Many users installed the **GNU tools** on many different computers as replacements for vendor supplied tools. This provided these users with **a consistency** across the **many different platforms** they used. The tools even eventually appeared under MS/Windows, providing a Unix-like environment on a very different operating system.

GNU tools开始流行起来，是因为它们在many different platforms提供了consistency。

The tools developed by the **GNU project** include such essential utilities as the **GNU file management utilities** and the **GNU text file processing utilities**. The **GNU file management utilities** include fundamental command line tools like `ls` (to list information about files/documents), `mkdir` (to create new directories/folders), `mv` (to move directories and files around), `rm` (to remove files), and many more. The **GNU text file processing commands** include `cat` (to concatenate files together), `head` (to preview the top few lines of a file), `sort` (to sort the contents of a file), and `wc` (to count the number of lines, words, and bytes in a file).

GNU Project的tools，这里举了两种类型的例子：

- （1） 文件管理：ls/mkdir/mv/rm
- （2） 文件内容：cat/head/sort/wc

## GNU Software

The toolkits developed by the GNU project are comprehensive.

- comprehensive
  - 全部的；所有的；（几乎）无所不包的；详尽的 including all, or almost all, the items, details, facts, information, etc., that may be concerned

- `awk`： A powerful yet simple pattern-based scripting language.
- `bash`： The Bourne Again SHell is compatible with the traditional Unix `sh` and offers many extensions found in `csh` and `ksh`. It is similar in concept to `DOS`.
- `fileutils`： File management utilities.
- `findutils`： The `find` utility is frequently used both interactively and in shell scripts to find files which match certain criteria and perform arbitrary operations on them.
- `gcc`： A free compiler collection for C, C++, Objective C and other languages. This compiler is used widely, on multiple platforms, including MS/Windows.
- `gdb`： A source-level debugger for C, C++ and Fortran.
- `tar`: An archive utility.
- `textutils`: A set of utilities for manipulating text.
- `time`: A utility to report on the time taken to execute other programs.
- `wget`: A non-interactive web browser to retrieve files from the Internet using HTTP and FTP. 

There are though many also that are **GUI-based** and end user focused, including `Gnome`, `KDE`, The `Gimp`, and `Gnumeric`.

- `gnome`： The GNU desktop which provides a consistent graphical user interface for common applications including everything from spreadsheets to mail clients, and more.
- `gtk+`： A GUI toolkit for the X Window System. All **Gnome** packages use this toolkit for their consistent look and feel.
- `gzip`： GNU's program for compressing and decompressing files.
- `kde`: An alternative, and very popular desktop which provides a consistent graphical user interface for common applications including everything from spreadsheets to mail clients, and more.


