# Metacharacters and Literals

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. The Any Character](#1-the-any-character)
- [2. Anchors](#2-anchors)
- [3. Bracket Expressions and Character Classes](#3-bracket-expressions-and-character-classes)
  - [3.1. Negation](#31-negation)
  - [3.2. Traditional Character Ranges](#32-traditional-character-ranges)
- [4. Alternation](#4-alternation)

<!-- /TOC -->

Regular expression **metacharacters** consist of the following:

```txt
^ $ . [ ] { } - ? * + ( ) | \
```

All other characters are considered **literals**.

As we can see, many of the **regular expression metacharacters** are also characters that have meaning to the shell when expansion is performed. When we pass **regular expressions** containing **metacharacters** on the command line, it is vital that they be **enclosed in quotes** to prevent the shell from attempting to expand them.

## 1. The Any Character

The first metacharacter we will look at is the dot (`.`) or period character, which is used to match any character.

## 2. Anchors

The caret (`^`) and dollar sign (`$`) are treated as **anchors** in regular expressions. This means they cause the match to occur only if the regular expression is found at the beginning of the line (`^`) or at the end of the line (`$`).

```bash
grep -h '^zip' dirlist*.txt
grep -h 'zip$' dirlist*.txt
grep -h '^zip$' dirlist*.txt
```

## 3. Bracket Expressions and Character Classes

In addition to matching any character at a given position in our regular expression, we can also match **a single character** from **a specified set of characters** by using **bracket expressions**.

With **bracket expressions**, we can specify a set of characters (including characters that would otherwise be interpreted as metacharacters) to be matched.

```bash
$ grep -h '[bg]zip' dirlist*.txt
bzip2
bzip2recover
gzip
```

A set may contain any number of characters, and **metacharacters lose their special meaning** when placed within **brackets**. However, there are **two cases** in which **metacharacters** are used within bracket expressions and have different meanings. The first is **the caret** (`^`), which is used to indicate **negation**; the second is **the dash** (`-`), which is used to indicate **a character range**.

这段理解：

- （1） 一般规则： metacharacters会在`[]`中失去它的含义
- （2） 特殊规则： **the caret** (`^`)表示取反，而**the dash** (`-`)表示字符范围。

### 3.1. Negation

The **caret** character(`^`) invokes **negation** only if it is **the first character** within a **bracket expression**; **otherwise**, it **loses its special meaning** and becomes an ordinary character in the set.

```bash
$ grep -h '[^bg]zip' dirlist*.txt
bunzip2
gunzip
funzip
gpg-zip
p7zip
preunzip
prezip
prezip-bin
unzip
unzipsfx
```

### 3.2. Traditional Character Ranges

If we wanted to construct a regular expression that would find every file in our lists beginning with an uppercase letter, we could do this:

```bash
$ grep -h '^[ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXZY]' dirlist*.txt
GET
HEAD
JxrDecApp
JxrEncApp
POST
VBoxBalloonCtrl
VBoxHeadless
VBoxManage
VBoxSDL
VirtualBox
X
X11
Xephyr
Xorg
Xwayland
ModemManager
NetworkManager
```

It’s just a matter of putting all 26 uppercase letters in a **bracket expression**. But the idea of all that typing is deeply troubling, so here is another way.

```bash
$ grep -h '^[A-Z]' dirlist*.txt
GET
HEAD
JxrDecApp
JxrEncApp
POST
VBoxBalloonCtrl
VBoxHeadless
VBoxManage
VBoxSDL
VirtualBox
X
X11
Xephyr
Xorg
Xwayland
ModemManager
NetworkManager
```

By using **a three-character range**, we can abbreviate the 26 letters. Any range of characters can be expressed this way including **multiple ranges**, such as this expression that matches all filenames starting with letters and numbers:

```bash
grep -h '^[A-Za-z0-9]' dirlist*.txt
```

In character ranges, we see that the dash character is treated specially, so how do we actually include a dash character in a bracket expression? By making it the first character in the expression. Consider these two examples:

```bash
grep -h '[A-Z]' dirlist*.txt
```

This will match every filename containing an uppercase letter.

The following will match every filename containing a dash or an uppercase A or an uppercase Z:

```bash
grep -h '[-AZ]' dirlist*.txt
```

## 4. Alternation

Just as a **bracket expression** allows a single character to match from a set of specified characters, **alternation** allows matches from a set of strings or other regular expressions.

这段理解：

- （1） bracket expression： 对一个字符进行匹配，from a set of specified characters
- （2） alternation：对字符串（多个字符）进行匹配

Now we’ll add alternation, signified by the **vertical-bar** metacharacter.

```bash
$ echo "AAA" | grep -E 'AAA|BBB'
AAA
$ echo "BBB" | grep -E 'AAA|BBB'
BBB
$ echo "CCC" | grep -E 'AAA|BBB'

```

Notice that since this is an extended feature, we added the `-E` option to `grep` (though we could have just used the `egrep` program instead), and we enclosed the regular expression in quotes to prevent the shell from interpreting the **vertical-bar** metacharacter as a pipe operator.

To combine alternation with other regular expression elements, we can use `()` to separate the alternation.

```bash
grep -Eh '^(bz|gz|zip)' dirlist*.txt
```


