# POSIX

<!-- TOC -->

- [POSIX History](#posix-history)
- [1. POSIX Character Classes](#1-posix-character-classes)
  - [1.1. The Problem](#11-the-problem)
  - [1.2. The Reason](#12-the-reason)
  - [1.3. The Solution: POSIX Character Classes](#13-the-solution-posix-character-classes)
- [2. POSIX Basic vs. Extended Regular Expressions](#2-posix-basic-vs-extended-regular-expressions)

<!-- /TOC -->

## POSIX History

During the 1980s, Unix became a very popular commercial operating system, but by 1988, the Unix world was in turmoil(混乱). Many computer manufacturers had licensed the Unix source code from its creators, AT&T, and were supplying various versions of the operating system with their systems. However, in their efforts to create product differentiation, each manufacturer added proprietary changes and extensions. This started to limit the compatibility of the software.<sub>软件的不一致，限制了软件的兼容性</sub> As always with proprietary vendors, each was trying to play a winning game of “lock in” with their customers. This dark time in the history of Unix is known today as the **Balkanization**.

> Balkanization = division of an area, region, or group into smaller and often mutually hostile units; the process of dividing a country, region etc into smaller areas where the different groups of people all dislike or fight each other

Enter the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). In the mid 1980s, the IEEE began developing **a set of standards** that would define **how Unix (and Unix-like) systems would perform**. These standards, formally known as IEEE 1003, define the application programming interfaces (APIs), shell, and utilities that are to be found on a standard Unix-like system. The name **POSIX**, which stands for **Portable Operating System Interface** (with the `X` added to the end for extra snappiness), was suggested by Richard Stallman (yes, that Richard Stallman) and was adopted by the IEEE.

## 1. POSIX Character Classes

### 1.1. The Problem

**Wildcards** can be used to perform **pathname expansion**.

**Character ranges** could be used in a manner almost identical to the way they are used in regular expressions, but here’s the problem:

```bash
$ ls /usr/sbin/[ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ]*
/usr/sbin/ModemManager  /usr/sbin/NetworkManager
```

This command produces the expected result — a list of only the files whose names begin with an uppercase letter.

But with the following command we get **an entirely different result** (only a partial listing of the results is shown):

```bash
$ ls /usr/sbin/[A-Z]*
/usr/sbin/biosdecode             /usr/sbin/pppoe-discovery
/usr/sbin/bluetoothd             /usr/sbin/pppstats
...
```

### 1.2. The Reason

Why is that? It’s a long story, but here’s the short version:

Back when Unix was first developed, it knew only about ASCII characters, and this feature reflects that fact.

In ASCII,

- the first 32 characters (numbers 0–31) are control codes (things such as tabs, backspaces, and carriage returns).
- The next 32 (32–63) contain printable characters, including most punctuation characters and the numerals 0–9.
- The next 32 (numbers 64–95) contain the uppercase letters and a few more punctu­ation symbols.
- The final 32 (numbers 96–127) contain the lowercase letters and yet more punctuation symbols.

Based on this arrangement, systems using ASCII used **a collation order** that looks like this:

```txt
# 这种排序代表的是“计算机的思维”，遵循计算机的存储方式
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
```

This differs from proper dictionary order, which is like this:

```txt
# 这种排序代表的是“人的思维”，遵循人类的思考方式
aAbBcCdDeEfFgGhHiIjJkKlLmMnNoOpPqQrRsStTuUvVwWxXyYzZ
```

As the popularity of Unix spread beyond the United States, there grew a need to support characters not found in US English. The ASCII table was expanded to use a full eight bits, adding characters 128–255, which accommodated many more languages. To support this capability, the POSIX standards introduced a concept called a **locale**, which could be adjusted to select the character set needed for a particular location. We can see the language setting of our system using the following command.

```bash
$ echo $LANG
en_US.UTF-8
```

With this setting, **POSIX-compliant applications** will use a **dictionary collation order** rather than **ASCII order**<sub>POSIX选择了与“人类的认知”保持一致。</sub>. This explains the behavior of the previous commands. A character range of `[A-Z]` when interpreted in dictionary order includes all of the alphabetic characters except the lowercase `a`, hence our results.

To partially work around this problem, the **POSIX standard** includes **a number of character classes** that provide useful ranges of characters.

### 1.3. The Solution: POSIX Character Classes

单一：数字、字母

- `[:digit:]`: The numerals `0` through `9`.
- `[:xdigit:]`: Characters used to express **hexadecimal numbers**. In ASCII, equivalent to: `[0-9A-Fa-f]`.
- `[:lower:]`: The lowercase letters.
- `[:upper:]`: The uppercase characters.
- `[:alpha:]`: The alphabetic characters. In ASCII, equivalent to: `[A-Za-z]`.

组合：字母、数字、下划线

- `[:alnum:]`: The alphanumeric characters. In ASCII, equivalent to: `[A-Za-z0-9]`.
- `[:word:]`: The same as `[:alnum:]`, with the addition of the underscore (`_`) character.

组合：空白字符

- `[:blank:]`: Includes the space and tab characters.
- `[:space:]`: The whitespace characters including space, tab, carriage return, newline, vertical tab, and form feed. In ASCII, equivalent to: `[ \t\r\n\v\f]`.

组合：分隔符

- `[:punct:]`: The punctuation characters. In ASCII, equivalent to: 

```txt
[-!"#$%&'()*+,./:;<=>?@[\\\]_`{|}~]
```

组合：复杂

- `[:cntrl:]`: The ASCII control codes. Includes the ASCII characters `0` through `31` and `127`.
- `[:graph:]`: The visible characters. In ASCII, it includes characters `33` through `126`.
- `[:print:]`: The printable characters. All the characters in `[:graph:]` plus the space character.

Even with the **character classes**, there is still no convenient way to express **partial ranges**, such as `[A–M]`.<sub>缺点：不能表示partial ranges</sub>

Using character classes, we can repeat our directory listing and see an improved result:

```bash
$ ls /usr/sbin/[[:upper:]]*
/usr/sbin/ModemManager  /usr/sbin/NetworkManager
```

Remember, however, that this is **not** an example of a **regular expression**; rather, it is the shell performing **pathname expansion**. We show it here because **POSIX character classes** can be used for **both**.

## 2. POSIX Basic vs. Extended Regular Expressions

POSIX splits **regular expression** implementations into **two kinds**: **basic regular expressions** (**BRE**) and **extended regular expressions** (**ERE**). The features we have covered so far are supported by any application that is POSIX compliant and implements BRE. Our `grep` program is one such program.

What’s the difference between BRE and ERE? It’s a matter of meta­characters.

With BRE, the following metacharacters are recognized:

```txt
^ $ . [ ] *
```

其中，

- `^`和`$`是属于Boundary
- `.`和`[]`是属于Character (class)
- `*`是属于Quantifier

All other characters are considered literals.

With ERE, the following metacharacters (and their associated functions) are added:

```txt
( ) { } ? + |
```

其中，

- `{}`、`?`和`+`是属于Quantifier
- `()`是属于Group
- `|`是属于Alternation

However (and this is the fun part), the `(`, `)`, `{`, and `}` characters are treated as **metacharacters** in **BRE** if they are escaped with a **backslash**, whereas with **ERE**, preceding any **metacharacter** with a **backslash** causes it to be treated as a **literal**. Any weirdness that comes along will be covered in the discussions that follow.

Because the features we are going to discuss next are part of **ERE**, we are going to need to use a different `grep`. Traditionally, this has been performed by the `egrep` program, but the GNU version of `grep` also supports extended regular expressions when the `-E` option is used.
