# process list

The `ps aux` command lists the processes currently running and helps identifying them by showing their `pid` (process id).

Once the `pid` of a process is known, the `kill -signal pid` command allows sending it a signal (if the process belongs to the current user). Several signals exist; most commonly used are `TERM` (a request to terminate gracefully) and `KILL` (a forced kill).

The command interpreter can also run programs in the background if the command is followed by a “`&`”. By using the ampersand, the user resumes control of the shell immediately even though the command is still running (hidden from the user; as a background process). The `jobs` command lists the processes running in the background; running `fg %job-number` (for foreground) restores a job to the foreground. When a command is running in the foreground (either because it was started normally, or brought back to the foreground with `fg`), the `Control+Z` key combination pauses the process and resumes control of the command-line. The process can then be restarted in the background with `bg %job-number` (for background).

## What is a Process in Linux?

A **process** is a fundamental part of any operating system - irrespective of whether they are proprietary or Free. And all Operating systems usually have a lot of processes running at any given time. This begs the question, what exactly is a process?

**A process is essentially a container**, bundling a running application, its environment variables, the state of the application's input and output, and the state of the process, including its priority and accumulated resource usage.

In short, every single application that you run on your machine will have its own unique process allocated to it for the duration of the time it runs.

In Linux, each of that unique process has a parent process from which it is forked (cloned, spawned) initially. The very first process that is created by Linux when you turn on the machine is the `init` process.

Process ID of the `init` process is always `1`.

All other processes in Linux are ultimately descended from `init`.

To check the process ID of `init`, run the following command.

```bash
$ ps -ef | grep init
root         1     0  0 Oct20 ?        00:00:01 /sbin/init
liusen   24418  6289  0 02:10 pts/1    00:00:00 grep init
```

Read the following article written by Martin Streicher that explains a process in much more detail. Even though the article describes processes in Unix, what is written there is equally applicable to Linux as well.

## Reference

- [What is a Process in Linux ?](http://www.aboutlinux.info/2012/04/what-is-process-in-linux.html)
- [UNIX processes](https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/aix/library/au-speakingunix8/?ca=dgr-lnxw01speakunix8)
